There’s a common saying
at Bethel
that the only thing
that is constant is change.
But frankly, that’s an understatement now,
wouldn’t you say?
In fact, wherever you turn,
it seems like at every occasion
we see change coming about
in one way or another.
In fact, when I first
submitted this outline
and think back to that day,
it has changed so much
just in those few months.
It really shows that we are
in a time of great change.
Of course, we’re in an organization
that’s built on change.
We’re in an organization
that as far back as Brother Russell
was willing
to study God’s Word and see
where perhaps his belief did not align
with what God’s Word said, and he changed.
And from that day forward,
our organization has continued to change.
And aren’t we glad
“the faithful and discreet slave”
continues to make adjustments
where necessary
for the sake of the preaching work;
for the sake of Jehovah’s name;
and, of course,
for his people, his sheep.
So when we think about that,
we think,
‘Change is not always bad.’
Now, all change
is not profound either.
We’ve had many changes
right here in Bethel in the last few years
—changes
that have benefited us as well.
Perhaps maybe it’s having
all our Saturdays off
so we can enjoy field service
with the congregation more regularly.
Perhaps it’s an extra day off
when we turn 70.
So, again, personal matters
can be attended to;
field service can be enjoyed
more fully by these.
What a blessing!
Even to have morning worship
and our Watchtower Study
in our room when we’re sick.
These are nice changes.
We can just go on and on
about the things that we enjoy in changes.
But sometimes,
sometimes in our life,
changes come about that maybe,
well, they cut a little deeper
into our comfort zone.
Isn’t that true?
So maybe it can cause us
a measure of personal anxiety
—maybe it’s fear of the unknown.
Or maybe it’s just the feeling
that I don’t have as much control
in my life anymore because
of this change that’s come about.
And so there is some anxiety
that goes with that.
In fact, whatever the case,
if we allow ourselves
to become too anxious,
the truth of Proverbs 12:25
comes about, where it says:
“Anxiety in a man’s heart
weighs it down.”
And so it can actually prevent us
from moving forward.
It can prevent us or it can slow us down
sometimes and we become overwhelmed
with anxious feelings
about what’s going on around me.
How am I being affected?
We use the example
in the theme
to talk about those sailors
on a sailing ship.
Why?
Well, because for a sailor
while at sea,
it may seem that he
is at the mercy of the elements.
And it’s true,
he cannot control the weather,
but he can adjust
to the weather.
An experienced sailor
is able to keep control.
He’s able
to stay on course
—by adjusting his sails,
by continuing to move forward,
by catching the wind from different angles,
and by allowing himself
to keep making progress
—even though at first
bad weather can slow you down.
In fact, for a ship to keep moving,
it has to have the winds
catching the sails.
And if you’ve ever seen a racing team
that has raced these large sailing ships,
it’s amazing how they can maneuver them,
how they can turn them,
how fast they can go
because they are experienced.
Well, in some ways, we think
we may not have complete control
over our life at Bethel.
And that’s true, we don’t.
We do have changing circumstances,
but we also
can keep control of our life.
Why?
Why can we say that?
Well, turn with me
to our first scripture in the 46th Psalm.
In Psalm 46,
notice what it says
in the very first three verses.
It says:
‘God is our refuge and strength,
‘a help that is readily found
in times of distress.
‘That is why we will not fear,
though the earth undergoes change,
‘though the mountains topple
into the depths of the sea,
‘though the waters
roar and foam over,
though the mountains rock
on account of its turbulence.’
Of course, these
are some pretty extreme circumstances.
I’m in no way
saying that’s Bethel.
But if we think
about the amount of change:
The entire earth is portrayed here
as undergoing some massive changes
—mountains falling into the sea,
violent oceans—and yet the psalmist said
he didn’t have to worry.
He was in control; he had no fear.
Why?
Because of verse 1:
‘God is our refuge and strength,
‘a help readily found
in times of distress.
That is why I will not fear.’
And the psalmist
did not fear because of that.
Jehovah is our strength;
he is our refuge.
And his stability
—the fact that he can never be shaken
in his stability—it grounds us.
It means that as long
as we stick close to Jehovah,
then nothing is going to put us
completely off balance.
And if it does
for a short period of time,
if we experience
a little bit of rough seas
—well, we adjust.
Why?
Because we have Jehovah,
and he helps us do that.
In our discussion tonight, we’re going
to consider three significant changes
—some have already happened,
some are affecting
our family even now,
and others will likely affect us
more even into the future.
We are also going to give attention
to three Bible accounts
that will help us to see
Jehovah’s unchanging love
for us and his ability
to help us ride through any storm.
The first has to do
with a change of location.
Now, of course,
think back to January 6, 2015.
It seems like a long time ago.
It is.
In Bethel time, it seems.
It was a normal day at Bethel.
You made your way down
to the dining room
for some cheese and chive egg white omelet
and a little muesli.
Then came that historic Bethel announcement
from the Governing Body.
It adjusted what departments
would be transferring to Wallkill.
You remember.
Now, not the Computer Department,
not Regional Design Construction
but now the Service Department
and the Branch Committee Office
would be relocating to Wallkill.
So think about that.
How many people’s lives changed
with just a few sentences
in a few minutes at morning worship?
Of course,
the Regional Design Construction Department
would then be moving
to Puerto Rico.
Who would have thought of that?
Did you see that one coming?
Change can happen quickly.
But, of course,
as a result of that announcement,
just beginning next month,
some 400 members of our family
from Patterson and Brooklyn
will be moving to Wallkill
in the beginning
of large changes for all of us.
And as big as that was,
it does seem like a long time ago.
Just when you were coming to grips with that,
then September rolled around
and you came down
to breakfast.
Yes, they served muesli again.
But the announcement given
to the Bethel family that day
discussed additional changes
to the organization.
It included a significant reduction
to Bethel families around the world
and a reemphasis
to the preaching work
and the assistance that could be given
to that preaching work through this change.
For the United States Bethel family,
we learned that we would not retain
the tunnel complex
as had been previously planned.
Instead, all property in Brooklyn
would be sold and any remaining departments
would have to fit
within the properties upstate.
So more movement.
And that’s already,
according to our recent update,
already beginning.
And we are seeing
signs of that around, aren’t we?
So, of course,
for many of us, what that meant
was family worship
took a little detour that week.
We had to go home
and talk about some of these things
because our families
got affected by these changes.
Of course,
individually and as a family,
we do loyally comply
with any direction.
The organization has reasons
for making adjustments,
and we understand that.
And so we want to be cooperative.
But for many,
it does mean a big change.
Maybe leaving a complex that has been
the one they’ve served at forever
—since they’ve been at Bethel.
Maybe it’s where
they’ve become very close
to not just friends there
but in the congregation
that they’ve served in
for many, many years.
Or consider others perhaps
who have relocated their aging parents
into the area of the complex
they’ve been serving in.
Now, can they move them again?
Are their parents
well enough to even be moved?
These are real situations.
And we understand that, of course,
they could give us a measure of anxiety
that can make us seem
a little bit concerned
or maybe even overwhelmed
sometimes.
But how can we be helped?
What can we do
so that we can move on?
What are some ways?
Obviously,
we can’t change a decision.
That’s not our position,
and we don’t want to.
We want to be cooperative
with what’s being done.
So we’re looking
for ways to do that.
Well, look at what the psalmist said,
David’s words in the 40th Psalm.
In the 40th Psalm,
notice what David said
—the confidence he has
in verse 5.
It says: “How many things
you have done, O Jehovah my God,
“your wonderful works
and your thoughts toward us.
“None can compare to you;
“if I were to try to tell
and speak of them,
they would be
too numerous to recount!”
So maybe it’s time
to personally take stock
—personally recount the saving acts
that Jehovah has done
toward us personally
here at Bethel,
in our family.
Perhaps, did he take you by the hand
when you were nervous
about coming into Bethel
for the first day?
Maybe he helped care for you
when you were a new bride trying to adjust
to a new city,
a new congregation, marriage
and, of course, a new job
—a new work you would do at Bethel.
Can you recall when you were feeling low
and he sent not just the right person
but the right person
at the right time with just the right words
to help kick you back into play a little bit
and maybe even protect you
from making a mistake about leaving
your Bethel service some time ago?
All of us probably can recount
over and over again
things that Jehovah has done
to show his love toward us
and his care for us,
even as David was confident.
But the question is,
Do you think He can do it again?
We had a beautiful Watchtower
just now that talked about faith.
And so we think about that.
Do we have that faith
that He will do it again?
Isaiah 59:1 says:
‘Jehovah’s hand will not be short.’
There is nothing
that cannot be accomplished
for those
who are faithful to Jehovah.
So we can recount it.
It may be that we need
to even write it down.
It may need to be that we pray
about these things so that we say,
“Yes, I see how Jehovah
has really taken care of me.”
Now, for others . . .
Another group that’s affected
by that same announcement is . . .
Maybe they’re having
a little anxiety
over not moving
to another complex.
Maybe they had their hope set
on where they were going,
and they
were looking forward to it.
Of course, as all were, necessarily,
because they adjust themselves.
They think, ‘OK, I’m ready.
Well, now I’m not going.’
And it may be that the tendency would be
to say, “Well, why not me?
“Let’s see,
my department is going,
“my work is going,
my friends are going.
What?
Did I do something wrong?”
And yet, really,
that’s not the case.
But circumstances
and decisions have to be made,
and so now we find ourselves . . .
We have to examine ourselves:
‘How am I going to react
to those types of feelings
that come up within myself?’
Proverbs 13:12 says:
“Expectation postponed
makes the heart sick.”
But the footnote
to that scripture says,
where it says “expectation,”
it says “hope.”
And so it could be that our hopes,
or our expectations,
are not realized,
and it can take a toll on us.
That’s natural.
But the question is,
Will we allow it
—our emotions
—to override our clear thinking?
Will we allow it to blow us off course,
so to speak, or slow us down
or even maybe change our direction
for a while, that,
well, we just don’t seem to be heading
in the same direction we thought we were?
We’re not making
as much progress as we once were.
To stay positive,
to stay levelheaded, to stay on course
requires sometimes that we
give a little change to our thinking
—especially if the circumstances
aren’t going to change.
It is easy to compare ourselves
with others, but it’s not healthy.
And Galatians 6:4
tells us not to compare.
It says don’t compare
ourselves or our work
with our fellow workers
in the truth or in the congregation.
So, what can be done?
Well, we would like to look
at our first Scriptural account.
It really helps us to see
the need to avoid comparing.
It has to do with Jesus’ selection
of the 12 apostles.
Think of what it meant to be with Jesus
at that time when he was on earth
—getting to know him,
working, learning from him personally,
listening to him
maybe day after day for some.
What a privilege!
They got to do it
for three and a half years.
We would trade a lot of time
even to spend just a little bit of time
learning from Jesus directly
like that, wouldn’t we?
Well, undoubtedly there were many
who wanted the privilege
of being one of Jesus’
closest disciples and apostles.
But the time came
that only 12 were chosen.
We know there were many
to choose from.
Look at what it says
in Acts the first chapter.
In Acts 1,
notice when they
were going to replace Judas,
who they chose from.
So after Jesus had died
and ascended to heaven,
verse 21, it says this
in Acts the first chapter.
Or after Jesus had died, it says this:
“It is therefore necessary
that of the men
who accompanied us,” in verse 21,
“during all the time in which the Lord Jesus
carried on his activities among us,
“starting with his baptism by John
until the day he was taken up from us,
one of these men should become a witness
with us of his resurrection.”
So there were many followers.
They knew who they were,
and they were able to select from them.
So imagine what it was
—a year and a half
into Jesus’ ministry,
after his baptism
—it was time to select the Twelve.
This is what Mark 13
says in that account.
Mark the 3rd chapter, sorry.
In Mark chapter 3,
notice what it says
in verse 13.
It says of Jesus:
“He ascended a mountain
“and summoned those whom he wanted,
and they came to him.
“And he formed a group of 12,
whom he also named apostles,
“those who were to accompany him
and whom he would send out to preach
and to have authority
to expel demons.”
So Jesus selected from those.
Luke’s account says
he prayed all night about it first.
And then he came down,
and then from the crowd of his disciples,
he selected those 12 men.
Now, picture yourself there.
What if you were one of the men
who loyally stuck by Jesus since His baptism?
Maybe, like Andrew
and John and Peter and James,
you were
an instantaneous believer too.
You left everything,
and you followed Him immediately.
You believed,
and you left all things behind.
But Jesus didn’t select you
as one of his 12.
How would you feel?
Slighted? Wronged?
Maybe that some injustice
had been done?
Would you begin to discount
those who were selected?
No, of course not!
You would think:
‘OK, I’m not going to be one of those 12.
But what are the blessings
I do get to enjoy?’
What were the blessings these men
would still be able to enjoy?
And apparently from Acts,
those men remained with Jesus.
Those followers—those disciples
—stuck close to him as well.
Well, they still got to listen
to him teach and preach.
They still—just a few days later, really
—would be able to hear
that famous Sermon on the Mount
if they had stayed right with him.
They were still entrusted
with the privilege of the ministry.
In fact, Jesus sent
the disciples out, the Twelve,
and then later
sent 70 to preach.
So, many others enjoyed
that blessing as well.
They could help others
to find the Messiah,
and they still had the hope
for the same reward
that those 12 apostles
were going to have
—being anointed and being able
to be in heaven with Jesus
after their resurrection.
So, what’s the lesson?
Well, rather than feeling
passed over for something
—maybe for the type of assignment
or even the location of an assignment
—we think about it, we adjust.
‘What do I have?
What are things I can enjoy?’
We devote ourselves, our time,
our energy, and all our mental resources
to fulfilling our ministry
—what we’ve been given to do
whether it’s our work here at Bethel
or in the field, things we can control.
Because what’s the option
—lower our sails,
just start floating aimlessly?
None of us want to do that.
That’s not why we came
to Bethel in the first place.
It also would be
a very dangerous thing to do.
So we avoid that.
Instead, we stay focused
on what’s most important.
Turn with me
to the book of 2 Corinthians,
2 Corinthians and the 4th chapter.
Notice what it says after talking
about the tribulation in verse 17
that’s “momentary and light”
and going to pass.
Notice what it says though
in verse 18:
“While we keep our eyes,
not on the things seen,
“but on the things unseen.
For the things seen are temporary,
but the things unseen are everlasting.”
What’s the lesson for us?
Everything in this system
except our relationship
with Jehovah is temporary
—our work assignments,
likely temporary;
our work locations,
temporary;
locations we live,
probably temporary too.
What doesn’t change
is our loyalty,
our devotion,
and integrity to Jehovah.
That’s what lasts,
and that’s why Jehovah promises
in Psalm 84:11:
‘He will not hold back anything good
from those walking in integrity.’
You notice, it didn’t require
a location or a job assignment.
Psalm 18:25 says:
“With someone loyal
you [or Jehovah] act in loyalty.”
That’s Jehovah’s promise
to all of us.
There’s another group affected
by those couple of announcements,
and that’s our wives.
Now, our wives
are often impacted in greater ways
than even we are
by some of these changes.
Most of our dear wives,
pretty much they’re going to move
if their husband is moving.
Now, stop and think about that.
How could it make you feel?
What if their move
to another complex
means losing
the job that they love?
Maybe they
are even good at it, right?
You know what that’s like.
Or even leaving those
that they are enjoying working with,
but now they’re separating.
I know for our office,
our Bethel Office in Brooklyn,
we are splitting
into many different directions and going.
So we are feeling
very personally that movement
of members
of our very close family
of office mates
that will be moving too.
But for our wives,
they don’t even . . .
Some of them do not yet know
where they will work.
They’re waiting still on that.
So imagine how
that would make them feel.
And they might even wonder:
‘Does anybody outside of my husband
even understand the anxiety
I am going through?’
Are emotions involved?
Absolutely!
Because often,
isn’t it true that we have more detail
about what’s going to happen to us
than sometimes even our wives do?
So it is good
for us to think about that.
What can help our wives
to cope with these feelings
and sometimes
the staying balanced and staying on course
with this question
hanging over their heads?
Well, we would like to consider
our second Scriptural example,
that of Esther.
Of the women in the Bible, Esther was one
who seemed to have very little say
on how she
would spend her life.
But she willingly submitted.
Let’s turn to Esther
and look at this account together.
In Esther the 2nd chapter,
we want to learn a little something
about Esther first
—Esther the 2nd chapter,
verse 7, in the b part.
In the second part, it says:
“The young woman was beautifully formed
“and attractive in appearance,
and at the death
of her father and her mother,
Mordecai took her as his daughter.”
So she was
a beautiful young woman
in Israel.
So no doubt,
there was no shortage
of nice young men
in the nation
that would have been interested,
and she probably
could have had her pick.
But did she get her pick?
No.
She, along with other
beautiful young women in that nation,
were taken by a pagan king,
Ahasuerus.
And look what it says
in chapter 2, verse 12.
It says, first it says:
“Each young woman had her turn
“to go in to King Ahasuerus
after completing the 12-month treatment
“that was prescribed for the women,
for this was the way
“they had to fulfill their beauty treatment
—six months with oil of myrrh
and six months with balsam oil
and various ointments for beauty treatment.”
Verse 14, it says:
“In the evening she would go in,
and in the morning she would return
to the second house of the women.”
So, of course,
instead of her getting to pick
a nice young man
that she could raise a family with
and serve Jehovah with
and maybe even be
someone who could
produce the Messiah,
that was gone
because now she was with someone
who didn’t love Jehovah.
A pagan, really,
and he already had many wives.
So that’s a pretty difficult situation.
Could you go along with that?
Well, Esther did.
Why?
Well, this is what it says.
Even Mordecai told her,
‘Don’t tell them you’re a Jew.’
Now, that may have gotten her
out of that whole arrangement.
Of course,
it may have cost her her life too.
But Esther 2:20 says this:
“Esther did not say anything
about her relatives and her people,
“just as Mordecai
had instructed. . . .
“Esther continued to do
what Mordecai said,
just as when she
was under his care.”
Esther put her personal preferences
and comforts aside.
She did just as she was told.
And, of course, we know what happened:
her act of faith, she became queen.
But also, what really happened?
Well, the 4th chapter, verse 14,
Mordecai says to her
in the latter part:
“Who knows whether
it is for a time like this
that you have attained
to your royal status?”
Jehovah used her.
She made herself available.
Her willingly complying
—even in difficult circumstances
that would have tested
any Christian sister in our time
—surely shows
that she had
a beautiful,
a beautiful spirit.
And do you think she ever looked back
and regretted that decision
—whether or not her cozy little life
that she wished she would have had was lost?
If she did, if so, all she had to do
was look around and see
every little boy and little girl
that she saw pass by
and realize that she had something.
Her self-sacrifice helped Jehovah
in preserving
that young person alive.
So she was
a powerful woman of faith
that we can call
a good example.
And our sisters are no different.
You aren’t simply here at Bethel
because of your husbands.
You made a choice,
a conscious decision to come to Bethel
—to live a life of self-sacrifice
and devotion through your Bethel service.
And we know that.
You could have said no
when that young man was interested in you
and he asked you, “Would you like
to get married and come to Bethel?”
You could have said no.
He would’ve followed you anywhere, right?
Or you sisters who are already married,
and you sat down with your husband
and you prayed about it
and you talked about it:
“Can we make ourselves available
for this avenue of service?”
And if you would’ve said no,
he would’ve stuck with you.
But you didn’t.
You put your own
personal comforts aside to a measure
so that you could have
this additional avenue of service.
And you know, we often talk about
telling people what we did in the new system
when we’re in Paradise and others ask,
“How did you spend your time?”
You’re not going to say, “Well, my husband
was at Bethel, so I was there.”
You’re going to say: “No,
I was at Bethel with my husband.
“And we got to
serve Jehovah full-time
“in the most exciting time
of the organization’s history,
“and we got to see beautiful things
that strengthened our faith.
And we got to be a part of that
—a part of that history.”
So it is for us.
We feel honored
to serve with you sisters
that are with us, our wives.
When Proverbs 31:31 speaks,
we think of you.
It says: “Give her
the reward for what she does,
and let her [own] works
praise her in the city gates.”
Now, that’s just one area of change.
What about a second area of change
that’s affecting many of us.
We want to talk about that
for just a few minutes.
And that’s the
change of assignment.
We’ve been talking
about reassignments.
But more specifically,
we’d like to talk to you brothers and sisters
who have been working
as temporary workers.
Some of you are temporary volunteers
who have poured your heart and soul
into the Wallkill and Warwick projects,
and we’re thankful for that.
You, many of you,
have seen the project go from a pile of dirt,
to a deep hole,
to beautiful structures.
At both locations, it’s been really marvelous
to see the willing workers.
But now the projects
are wrapping up,
and the majority of Wallkill work
will be done in just a few months.
And Warwick, of course, now we got the news:
move-in date of September 1.
So that’s exciting.
Some may have thought,
‘Well, if I’d just worked hard enough,
if I’d just stayed long enough,
maybe I’d get to stay afterward.’
And we can’t blame you
for feeling that way.
But, of course, it’s pretty clear now,
many will be going home.
So, of course,
that’s a change of assignment for you.
You may be wondering
what you will do next.
Most, like you, are wondering, though,
where are you going to get the same joy?
Where are you going to be able
to do the same fulfilling work
that you made yourself
available for here?
And that’s really commendable.
We’d like you to consider
the account of Bezalel.
Now, we’ve talked
a lot about Bezalel.
Of course, during construction
we always do, right?
If you turn to the account
in Exodus 31,
let’s just look at this
together for just a moment.
In speaking about Bezalel,
this is what it says about him.
In verse 2
of chapter 31 of Exodus,
it says:
“See, I have chosen Bezalel
“the son of Uri the son of Hur
of the tribe of Judah.
“I will fill him with the spirit of God,
giving him wisdom,
understanding, and knowledge
of every kind of craftsmanship.”
And verse 6 says: ‘Moreover, to assist him
I have appointed Oholiab
‘the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan,
and I am putting wisdom into his heart
‘and all those who are skillful,
so that they may make everything
I have commanded you.’
Well, that was a powerful,
powerful commission
by Jehovah for Bezalel.
He personally would be overseeing
the building of the tabernacle,
but not just the tabernacle
but everything that was in it
—the furnishings,
the utensils, the ark of the covenant,
the cover of the ark,
the tables,
the alters,
even the clothing for the priests.
It’s really amazing
what he as well as these other
skilled craftsman had been able to do!
But in a sense,
isn’t that what Jehovah’s spirit
has empowered you to do
in your work at Wallkill and Warwick?
You came with skills,
and you learned others.
Like Bezalel, Jehovah’s spirit has helped,
and it’s been evident.
And no doubt Bezalel
was admired and praised for what he did,
just as we admire and praise
you for much of your work.
However,
once that tabernacle was inaugurated,
things changed for Bezalel.
When the tabernacle was inaugurated,
Bezalel could no longer enter it.
Leviticus 16
says that only Aaron
could come into the Most Holy
and only that during the appointed time.
Additionally, in Numbers 3:31,
it says Bezalel could no longer
even touch the furnishings
because now the Kohathites
had the sole responsibility
of moving those utensils.
So now here is someone who had
a personal hand in doing all of that work
for that tabernacle to be built,
but now he couldn’t go inside,
couldn’t touch,
couldn’t even look.
How do you think he felt?
Well, the scripture doesn’t say,
but likely
to a man of devotion like him,
the work would’ve been more important
than just his own personal feelings.
But we know this:
What he couldn’t do
would only be overshadowed
by what he could do.
He had beautiful memories.
Imagine telling his children
and grandchildren of what work he did.
Imagine having them meet others
who worked right alongside him.
Yes, a lasting monument to praise Jehovah
—that’s what he was working on,
and that’s what you’ve been
working on.
Something to praise Jehovah,
to make his name known.
But imagine how thrilled Bezalel
is going to be when he learns
that his faithfulness and his actions
were recorded in God’s Word for all of us.
What a privilege that will be too!
What’s the lesson for us?
Don’t judge the quality
or appreciation of your work
by whether or not
you get to stay.
In our Bible reading
this last week,
2 Chronicles 15:7 was cited.
It says: ‘But you, be strong
and do not be discouraged,’
or “do not let your hands drop” down,
“for your activity will be rewarded.”
Yes, you don’t need
to be discouraged.
Like Bezalel, you have a lifetime of memories
to share and you can appreciate.
You’ll be able to bring your family
to facilities that you’ve helped build.
You’ll be able to point out
things that you did.
You’ll also have memories
that no one can take away from you,
and those
will be precious as well.
Maybe some of those bus rides
you’ll be able to talk about.
And I know
that the audience here
especially can appreciate
those bus rides.
A mechanic
told me once he was working
on the air conditioning
for the bus in the middle of the night.
He said,
“You do not want a hot bus
“full of 60 hot workers
stuck in midtown-Manhattan traffic
coming home.”
But think of those memories.
Think of the things that went right; think
of the things that maybe had a little glitch.
Those are memories you have,
and every time you get together with someone
who you served with,
you’re going to talk about that.
And what was the biggest frustration
that you had is now going to be something
you laugh about
and talk about for an eternity.
Memories that can never ever
be taken away from you.
So remember,
this is not your last assignment.
We don’t retire
from Jehovah’s service.
We don’t have a rocking chair
somewhere on a porch,
and now we’re just going
to rock ourselves into the sunset.
We have work to do, and Jehovah
wants you to be part of it.
So it’s just like . . .
If you have to leave Bethel,
one of the things
that someone had said before is:
“The best way to leave Bethel
is to take it with you when you go.
“Take your memories with you.
“Build enthusiasm
and appreciation for others in Bethel.
“Take your friendships,
and never stop volunteering
for any assignment
the organization needs.”
They need us.
They need you to do that work.
Finally, the third and last change
we want to talk about
has to do
with changing circumstances personally
for many in our family.
Many of our older members
of the family have served for decades.
They have witnessed
an exciting growth
in the history
of Jehovah’s people.
Maybe when Brooklyn
was the only buildings at Bethel,
then Kingdom Farm,
Mountain Farm, Wallkill, Patterson
—tremendous expansion
—and now Warwick.
Many of our older ones at Bethel
have experienced all of that.
They have seen all of that come.
What a beautiful privilege
that they’ve had!
But maybe, some have been told
that they won’t be going
with their department to Wallkill
or even Warwick in some cases.
So that can be pretty disappointing.
That can stir
some pretty deep-seated emotions.
They might feel as the psalmist did
in Psalm 71:9, where he said:
“Do not cast me off in my old age;
do not abandon me
when my strength fails.”
But we must remember
that our changing circumstances
—whoever we are,
wherever we serve—have nothing to do
with how Jehovah views us.
So it doesn’t change our desire
to be used by him as well.
This last week
Brother Larson mentioned
Isaiah the 46th chapter,
and it’s an appropriate scripture
for us to consider when talking
about this particular subject as well.
Isaiah 46:4, it says:
“Until you grow old
I will be the same;
“until your hair is gray
I will keep bearing you.
“As I have done,
I will carry you
and bear you and rescue you.”
Jehovah has always done that for us.
And for you older members of the family
with many decades of faithful service,
you’ve shown us how
to let Jehovah do that,
so that you
can get the work done.
It’s that same unchangeable God
that helps us
continue to be stabilized.
It grounds us,
and it guards our heart,
so that we know
that Jehovah loves us
and cherishes us personally.
When our hair is gray
and our strength is gone, Jehovah carries us.
So we know, you brothers
and sisters did not come to Bethel
with the idea
that one day you would retire.
You have worked hard.
You didn’t plan for that day.
But Jehovah doesn’t view it that way.
We think about Daniel
in the 10th chapter.
Jehovah described Daniel
as a “very precious man.”
He was likely
around 100 years of age,
and yet he was
still very precious in Jehovah’s eyes
—even as you are.
So it’s important to remember
that just because we cannot do
what we once did, does not mean
we cannot do anything at all.
We’d like to consider, finally,
the example
of the apostle John
to help us maybe
get a perspective on this.
Now, of course,
John was used mightily by Jehovah.
He was a man of action, of faith.
Jesus called him
and his brother the “Sons of Thunder.”
So they were people
who were full of action.
John 21:7 also says he’s described
as “the disciple whom Jesus loved.”
He sat directly next to Jesus
at mealtimes.
He was a very special friend.
Maybe even Jesus shared things
with him that He didn’t
with the other disciples
around Him.
He was one of the few
to witness the transfiguration.
He was one of the three
that accompanied Jesus
into the house of Jairus
to witness the resurrection of his daughter.
He even had the honor
of caring
for Jesus’ mother
after his death.
Still, after Jesus’ ascension
to heaven,
when all of this activity
was going on,
what did John do?
Well, he preached.
He was a faithful member
of the congregation.
He was with Peter when some
of the most fiery speeches were given,
miracles were performed,
and when they stood up to say:
‘We will obey God
as ruler rather than men.’
All of those things show
that John was a man of faith.
But a long time went by
when we catch up with John
later in life.
In the meantime,
so much else had happened.
Many had written
their own Gospel, right?
Matthew had written it
some eight years after Jesus’ death.
Fifteen to seventeen years later,
Luke wrote his.
A few years after that,
Mark wrote his.
But not John,
he still hadn’t written his.
Sixty-three years later,
where do we find John?
Well, apparently where most Christians
were back then
—preaching or in prison.
So look at what it says,
Revelation 1:9,
Revelation 1:9.
Now imagine, he’s old;
he’s well into his 90’s.
He’s the last
of the apostles to be alive.
Revelation 1:9 says:
“I John, your brother
“and a sharer with you
in the tribulation and kingdom
“and endurance
in association with Jesus,
“was on the island called Patmos
for speaking about God
and bearing witness
concerning Jesus.”
John was old,
but he was active.
His faith was intact,
and he found himself
in prison.
But that’s not even
fully the point.
You see, John was yet to receive,
was just about to receive,
or had just received
what was arguably
the greatest privilege
he would ever have.
Yes, because Jehovah caused him
to see a thrilling vision of the future.
It brings it all the way down
to the time of the end
and the conclusion
of this system of things.
He got to pen
the vision of Revelation.
And then after that,
he got to write his Gospel
and three other books
with his name.
Do you think he was worthless?
No.
He was at an all-time peak.
His value was the best ever.
But isn’t it amazing!
We think sometimes that maybe
there’s nothing left for us to do,
but that’s not
how Jehovah sees it.
What a grand privilege for John
to cap some 70 years of faithful service!
What’s the lesson?
We never lose our value
to Jehovah or his organization
as long as we remain faithful.
And it’s true
that for our older ones here at Bethel,
you’ve taught us
as young ones coming into Bethel
what it means
to work for Jehovah.
What it means
to really put yourself out for that.
The example I always think of
is when it snows outside in Brooklyn.
We have a nice arrangement.
The Transportation Office will go out;
they’ll actually see
if the roads can be traveled.
They’ll call the Bethel Office.
The Bethel Office
will call the Branch Committee.
We’ll put an announcement together:
It’s too snowy to go out.
You know what we spend
the most time on?
Trying to figure out how to tell
the senior members of the family
it’s OK
not to go to work.
You would think we’re trying
to make them renounce their faith.
And don’t let those sidewalks dry up
before noon, because they’ll be out there.
They’ll be going to work.
Yes, you have taught us
how to be
really devoted servants of Jehovah,
and you will continue to do that.
Your example is one that comes
like a tree that has maturity.
It’s so much more valuable
than just a sapling
that is waiting
to produce fruitage.
So it is that we know you’re
like “big trees of righteousness” to Jehovah.
So these are areas
that all of us face.
We haven’t covered them all.
It’s just a few
we’ve considered tonight.
But we recognize that change is a fact
of life, and we’re all affected by it.
It’s going to continue;
we expect it to.
But we’ve all learned that the one thing
that doesn’t change is Jehovah.
He’s the one who will keep us;
he’s the one who will ground us,
and he is our refuge
and our strength.
In our Bible examples today,
do we have one that can help us
in Bezalel, in Esther,
in the apostle John,
and their faithful examples?
When we go back
to our illustration of sailing,
rarely is a boat able
to get somewhere
sailing in a direct line.
Now, sometimes you’ll have great weather
and that can happen.
But when sailing into the wind,
a sailor needs to employ
what they call tacking,
and the organization has used that
in talking about maneuvering and changes.
But in short, it means that they steer
upwind in a zigzag fashion
so that they get the wind hitting
both sides of the sail,
and it pushes them forward
in spite of riding into the wind.
For us,
we have the advantage.
Jesus is at the helm.
He knows exactly where
he wants us to be going.
We’re not alone
in going through changes at Bethel either.
First Corinthians 12:25
tells us:
“There should be
no division in the body,
but its members should have
mutual concern for one another.”
So our concern for others
should help us
to not just think
about ourselves.
We have many who
are changing assignments even now
—temporary workers who are leaving,
Bethel family members being reassigned,
and others
who will be moving very soon.
These are changes,
and they affect us.
But Jehovah
is that same person,
even as we read
in the 46th Psalm.
The One who can be
with us no matter what.
Bigger,
more exciting changes?
I appreciate Brother Lett saying that,
even in his Watchtower study today.
Armageddon is coming.
Does it get
any bigger than that?
Wickedness will be
a thing of the past.
Paradise will be real
and here.
The resurrection will happen,
and old age and death
will be a thing of the past.
These are changes we can believe in,
and we can look forward to.
When we think about that,
whatever changes come our way,
we can be confident that
we will not just go through them,
but we can actually embrace them.
We can even grow
from them;
we can even make sure
we’re moving ahead with them.
We can be sure
that our unchanging God, Jehovah,
will stick by us,
and he’s our rewarder
everlastingly.